examples/README.md, before:

## Examples of `tokio-core`

This directory contains a number of examples showcasing various capabilities of
the `tokio_core` crate. Most of these examples also leverage the `futures` and
`tokio_io` crates, along with a number of other miscellaneous dependencies for
various tasks.

All examples can be executed with:

```
cargo run --example $name
```

A high level description of each example is:

* `hello` - a tiny server that simply writes "Hello!" to all connected clients
  and then terminates the connection, should help see how to create and
  initialize `tokio_core`.
* `echo` - this is your standard TCP "echo server" which simply accepts
  connections and then echos back any contents that are read from each connected
  client.
* `echo-udp` - again your standard "echo server", except for UDP instead of TCP.
  This will echo back any packets received to the original sender.
* `echo-threads` - servers the same purpose as the `echo` example, except this
  shows off using multiple cores on a machine for doing I/O processing.
* `connect` - this is a `nc`-like clone which can be used to interact with most
  other examples. The program creates a TCP connection or UDP socket to sends
  all information read on stdin to the remote peer, displaying any data received
  on stdout. Often quite useful when interacting with the various other servers
  here!
* `chat` - this spins up a local TCP server which will broadcast from any
  connected client to all other connected clients. You can connect to this in
  multiple terminals and use it to chat between the terminals.
* `proxy` - an example proxy server that will forward all connected TCP clients
  to the remote address specified when starting the program.
* `sink` - a benchmark-like example which shows writing 0s infinitely to any
  connected client.
* `tinyhttp` - a tiny HTTP/1.1 server which doesn't support HTTP request bodies
  showcasing running on multiple cores, working with futures and spawning
  tasks, and finally framing a TCP connection to discrete request/response
  objects.
* `udp-codec` - an example of using the `UdpCodec` trait along with a small
  ping-pong protocol happening locally.
* `compress` - an echo-like server where instead of echoing back everything read
  it echos back a gzip-compressed version of everything read! All compression
  occurs on a CPU pool to offload work from the event loop.

If you've got an example you'd like to see here, please feel free to open an
issue. Otherwise if you've got an example you'd like to add, please feel free
to make a PR!

Commit message:

Add a `tinydb` example sharing state
This example is intended to showcase sharing state between all connected clients
on a server, for example a key/value store (in-memory database)

Closes #257

examples/README.md, after:

## Examples of `tokio-core`

This directory contains a number of examples showcasing various capabilities of
the `tokio_core` crate. Most of these examples also leverage the `futures` and
`tokio_io` crates, along with a number of other miscellaneous dependencies for
various tasks.

All examples can be executed with:

```
cargo run --example $name
```

A high level description of each example is:

* `hello` - a tiny server that simply writes "Hello!" to all connected clients
  and then terminates the connection, should help see how to create and
  initialize `tokio_core`.
* `echo` - this is your standard TCP "echo server" which simply accepts
  connections and then echos back any contents that are read from each connected
  client.
* `echo-udp` - again your standard "echo server", except for UDP instead of TCP.
  This will echo back any packets received to the original sender.
* `echo-threads` - servers the same purpose as the `echo` example, except this
  shows off using multiple cores on a machine for doing I/O processing.
* `connect` - this is a `nc`-like clone which can be used to interact with most
  other examples. The program creates a TCP connection or UDP socket to sends
  all information read on stdin to the remote peer, displaying any data received
  on stdout. Often quite useful when interacting with the various other servers
  here!
* `chat` - this spins up a local TCP server which will broadcast from any
  connected client to all other connected clients. You can connect to this in
  multiple terminals and use it to chat between the terminals.
* `proxy` - an example proxy server that will forward all connected TCP clients
  to the remote address specified when starting the program.
* `sink` - a benchmark-like example which shows writing 0s infinitely to any
  connected client.
* `tinyhttp` - a tiny HTTP/1.1 server which doesn't support HTTP request bodies
  showcasing running on multiple cores, working with futures and spawning
  tasks, and finally framing a TCP connection to discrete request/response
  objects.
* `udp-codec` - an example of using the `UdpCodec` trait along with a small
  ping-pong protocol happening locally.
* `compress` - an echo-like server where instead of echoing back everything read
  it echos back a gzip-compressed version of everything read! All compression
  occurs on a CPU pool to offload work from the event loop.
* `tinydb` - an in-memory database which shows sharing state between all
  connected clients, notably the key/value store of this database.

If you've got an example you'd like to see here, please feel free to open an
issue. Otherwise if you've got an example you'd like to add, please feel free
to make a PR!
